So welcome to the final step in our research process by now I have a shortlist of key words which you
know have good month research following them and you also know their specific and so are likely to convert
.
Well the final thing that we need to really assess the competition for that those key words can we realistically
get to the top of the search results or is the key we're too competitive and we really do want to get
to the top of the search results because that's where everybody on Google clicks.
They don't look to the second page.
They don't look to the third page.
So this is a very important part of key research.
And I going to show you a prostitute is using another free tool.
So let's now return to our keyword research list.
And we want to we want to see is take these one by one and start putting them into Google because we
really want to see what these top 10 search results are like.
And as I said we want to assess really can we beat these guys the way that we're going to do that is
we're going to use a tool called the Mars Bar Chrome extension.
You can just type it into Google and pop right up there and you can add us to Chrome.
I've already got it installed here.
And so I just click this little button click this little button and now it should pop up with this little
toolbar underneath that gives us some information that can help us decide is this keyword too competitive
.
We're coming around for us so to assess if we can really get to the top of the search results.
The main metric we're going to focus on is this P-A.
This stands for page authority and if you remember earlier in the course I told you that Google in the
search results ranked the most relevant web pages not the most relevant web sites.
So that's why we're really focusing on this page authority that's really the authority for the page
.
So one other information that's shown here is the number of links from around the Internet linking back
to this page and really showing its authority as well the domain authority DA is the an on aggregate
the authority that all of the web pages on this Web site on the domain really have.
So just to keep it simple.
The main thing that we want to look at is this page authority figure.
And essentially what we're looking for is for this key word are there are a lot of the page authorities
are or are they 40 or below.
I think you know as a guideline what I would say if all of the pages are 30 and below.
It's going to be easy for you to rank there if the pages are from maybe 30 to 40 what you're going to
need to do is have some good onsite optimization which I'm going to show you do later in the course
and also builds some links.
So that's the guideline Let's have a look at entry so we can see that the page authorities seem to be
quite high.
Sixty two seventy seven.
Here's a little bit lower at thirty seven fifty 46 51 48 42 and last but not least 18:10 at the bottom
.
So I think what I would say is that's quite a competitive keyword.
From what I can see there also is a bit of a broader keyword so maybe something more specific could
be good to look at.
So as you can see here Google has suggested some other related searches and actually you scroll down
the bottom they they have all of them here so you could maybe copy this back into the Google Keyword
planner to see if these you know longer tail keywords have any good search find them.
OK so Ardu copter Kesh is probably the best one there with 90 searches per month so a low amount of
searches but I think for Drum's if you get a sale on them you know it's usually quite a high price point
so that could even be worth getting a ranking for so let's have a look at this name.
So as you can see Daphne it's seems like a lower page volumes all rancid 28 42 31.
And this is definitely going to be a lot easier for you to get to the top of the search results on.
And if you a high price price point it could be worthwhile taking time to rank for even 90 searches
a month.
But I guess it really will depend you know on what is the price point.
If they complete the purchase.
So what I can do then maybe is on my final list I've got it in Arti cup to cash a note of the number
sergers But let's keep looking because we really want to pick the best.
He would say let's move on to the second one on our short list.
Let's go.
John Carter Cash so kind of a similar one but a different starting keyword so you can see here maybe
42 47 27 1 45 63 20 so 42 22 so this is definitely a keyword that actually now has more searches than
the Ardu copter keyword and is less competitive.
So this is definitely you know a better keyword for us to focus on.
And you know as well as the page authority what you might start to notice now is some of the On page
optimization so you can see that you know these these these page authorities are like 40s aren't there
so what you need to do is have good on page optimization and also build some links as well.
So for this particular keyword quadcopter kit you can see in the title TYG.
This is what we're really going to look at this morning the key or the on page optimization section
of the course but you'll notice that the key word isn't featured in the title tag here it is here.
It is here it is here and not the exact Heuer it is featured in the title here.
So it looks like some of these pages are not that well optimized around this keyword specifically.
So if you could do a better job than Then you have a good chance of ranking for this keyword.
Also the number of links is not that huge.
I mean 6 links 0 links 11 links eight links and you know that is not a huge amount of links so this
is definitely good keyword and I'm going to put some of her on a list.
So just to recap on what you've learned to this lecture you've learned that assessing the key word competition
is really an essential part of the SEO.
You really need to know can you get to the top search results.
The best way to assess that is by typing putting the key word from your short list into Google and looking
specifically for the page authorities as a guideline I would say below 30 page authority of a lot of
them on the first page or below 30 is going to be easy for me to rank if it's between 30 and 40 with
some good on page optimization which just show you in the next section of the course and some link building
link with some links which are shown in the files section of the course you should be able to rank with
those.
So I hope you enjoyed this lecture and give it a go yourself and learn the most part Chrome extension
and start testing those keywords